.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)lp.4	6.1 (Berkeley) 1/28/88
.\"
.TH LP 4 "January 28, 1988"
.UC 2
.SH NAME
lp \- line printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
/sys/conf/SYSTEM:
.ta .5i +\w'LP_MAXCOL  'u +\w'lp_printers  'u
	NLP	\fIlp_printers\fP	# Line Printer
	LP_MAXCOL	\fI132\fP	# Maximum number of columns on line printers
.DT

/etc/dtab:
.ta .5i +\w'#Name 'u +\w'Unit# 'u +\w'177777 'u +\w'Vector 'u +\w'Br 'u +\w'xxxxxxx 'u +\w'xxxxxxx 'u
	#Name	Unit#	Addr	Vector	Br	Handler(s)		# Comments
	lp	?	177514	200	4	lpintr		# lp-11 line printer
.DT

major device number(s):
	raw: 5
minor device encoding:
	bit 01 specifies 64-character set (instead of 96-character set)
	bits 06 are reserved
	bits 0370 specify line printer unit: <lp_unit> * 8
.fi
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lp
provides the interface to any of the standard
DEC line printers on an LP-11 parallel interface.
When it is opened or closed, a suitable number
of page ejects is generated.
Bytes written are printed.
.PP
The unit number of the printer is specified by the minor device
after removing the low 3 bits, which act as per-device parameters.
Currently only the lowest of the low three bits is interpreted:
if it is set, the device is treated as having a 64-character set,
rather than a full 96-character set.
In the resulting half-ASCII mode, lower case letters are turned
into upper case and certain characters are escaped according to
the following table:
.PP
.br
.ns
.TP 10
{
\o"-("
.br
.ns
.TP 10
}
\o"-)"
.br
.ns
.TP 10
\`
\o"-\'"
.br
.ns
.TP 10
|
\o"\-!"
.br
.ns
.TP 10
~
\o"\-^"
..
.PP
The driver correctly interprets
carriage returns, backspaces, tabs, and form feeds.
Lines longer than the maximum page width are truncated.
The page width is specified via the LP_MAXCOL definition,
set to 132 in the GENERIC distribution.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/dev/MAKEDEV.local  'u
/dev/lp
.br
/dev/MAKEDEV	script to create special files
.br
/dev/MAKEDEV.local	script to localize special files
.DT
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lpr(1),
dtab(5),
autoconfig(8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None.
.SH BUGS
Although the driver supports multiple printers this has never
been tried.
