.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)sri.4	6.4 (Berkeley) 8/20/87
.\"
.TH SRI 4 "August 20, 1987"
.UC 2
.SH NAME
sri \- DR11-C IMP interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
/sys/conf/SYSTEM:
	NSRI	\fIsri_controllers\fP	# SRI DR11c ARPAnet IMP
.fi
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.BR "sri%d: not alive" .
The initialization routine was entered even though the device
did not autoconfigure.  This indicates a system problem.
.PP
.BR "sri%d: can't initialize" .
Insufficient UNIBUS resources existed to initialize the device.
This is likely to occur when the device is run on a buffered
data path on an 11/750 and other network interfaces are also
configured to use buffered data paths, or when it is configured
to use buffered data paths on an 11/730 (which has none).
.PP
.BR "sri%d: imp doesn't respond, ibf=%b" .
The driver attempted to initialize the device, but the IMP
failed to respond after 5 tries.  Check the cabling.
.PP
.BR "sri%d: stray xmit interrupt, csr=%b" .
An interrupt occurred when no output had previously been started. 
.PP
.BR "sri%d: output error, csr=%b" .
The device indicated a problem sending data on output.
.PP
.BR "sri%d: input error, ibf=%b" .
The device indicated a problem receiving data on input.
.PP
.BR "sri%d: bad length=%d" .
An input operation resulted in a data transfer of less than
10 or more than 1008 bytes of
data into memory (according to the word count register).
This should never happen as the maximum size of a host-IMP
message is 1018 bytes.
