.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)tm.4	6.1 (Berkeley) 1/28/88
.\"
.TH TM 4 "January 28, 1988"
.UC 2
.SH NAME
tm \- TM-11/TE-10 magtape interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
/sys/conf/SYSTEM:
.ta .5i +\w'AVIVTM 'u +\w'tm_drives 'u
	# Setting AVIVTM configures the TM driver for the AVIV 800/1600/6250
 	# controller.  For more details, see /sys/pdpuba/tm.c.
	NTM	\fItm_drives\fP	# TM11
	AVIVTM	\fIYES\fP	# AVIV 800/1600/6250 controller

/etc/dtab:
.ta .5i +\w'#Name 'u +\w'Unit# 'u +\w'177777 'u +\w'Vector 'u +\w'Br 'u +\w'xxxxxxx 'u +\w'xxxxxxx 'u
	#Name	Unit#	Addr	Vector	Br	Handler(s)		# Comments
	tm	?	172520	224	5	tmintr		# tm11 driver
.DT

major device number(s):
	raw: 7
	block: 1
minor device encoding:
	bits 0003 specify TS drive
	bit  0004 specifies no-rewind operation
	bits 0030 specify recording density:
		0000:   800BPI
		0010:  1600BPI (AVIVTM and some other controllers)
		0020:  6250BPI (AVIVTM only)
.fi
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
The tm-11/te-10 combination provides a standard tape drive
interface as described in
.IR mtio (4).
The standard DEC tm-11 operates only at 800 bpi.
Other controllers of this type may also allow operation at 1600 bpi,
under software control or by switching manually.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/dev/MAKEDEV.local  'u
/dev/MAKEDEV	script to create special files
.br
/dev/MAKEDEV.local	script to localize special files
.DT
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mt(1),
tar(1),
tp(1),
mtio(4),
ht(4),
ts(4),
mt(4),
dtab(5),
autoconfig(8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\fBte%d: no write ring\fR.  An attempt was made to write on the tape drive
when no write ring was present; this message is written on the terminal of
the user who tried to access the tape.
.PP
\fBte%d: not online\fR.  An attempt was made to access the tape while it
was offline; this message is written on the terminal of the user
who tried to access the tape.
.PP
\fBte%d: can't change density in mid-tape\fR.  An attempt was made to write
on a tape at a different density than is already recorded on the tape.
This message is written on the terminal of the user who tried to switch
the density.
.PP
\fBte%d: hard error bn%d er=%b\fR.   A tape error occurred
at block \fIbn\fR; the tm error register is
printed in octal with the bits symbolically decoded.  Any error is
fatal on non-raw tape; when possible the driver will have retried
the operation which failed several times before reporting the error.
.PP
\fBte%d: lost interrupt\fR.  A tape operation did not complete
within a reasonable time, most likely because the tape was taken
off-line during rewind or lost vacuum.  The controller should, but does not,
give an interrupt in these cases.  The device will be made available
again after this message, but any current open reference to the device
will return an error as the operation in progress aborts.
.SH BUGS
If any non-data error is encountered on non-raw tape, it refuses to do anything
more until closed.
