.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)ts.4	6.1 (Berkeley) 1/28/88
.\"
.TH TS 4 "January 28, 1988"
.UC 2
.SH NAME
ts \- TS-11 magtape interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
/sys/conf/SYSTEM:
	NTS	\fIts_drives\fP		# TS11

/etc/dtab:
.ta .5i +\w'#Name 'u +\w'Unit# 'u +\w'177777 'u +\w'Vector 'u +\w'Br 'u +\w'xxxxxxx 'u +\w'xxxxxxx 'u
	#Name	Unit#	Addr	Vector	Br	Handler(s)		# Comments
	ts	?	172520	224	5	tsintr		# ts11 driver
.DT

major device number(s):
	raw: 8
	block: 2
minor device encoding:
	bits 0003 specify TS drive
	bit  0004 specifies no-rewind operation
	bit  0010 ignored
.fi
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
The ts-11 combination provides a standard tape drive
interface as described in
.IR mtio (4).
The ts-11 operates only at 1600 bpi, and only one transport
is possible per controller.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/dev/MAKEDEV.local  'u
/dev/MAKEDEV	script to create special files
.br
/dev/MAKEDEV.local	script to localize special files
.DT
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mt(1),
tar(1),
tp(1),
mtio(4),
ht(4),
tm(4),
dtab(5),
autoconfig(8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\fBts%d: no write ring\fR.  An attempt was made to write on the tape drive
when no write ring was present; this message is written on the terminal of
the user who tried to access the tape.
.PP
\fBts%d: not online\fR.  An attempt was made to access the tape while it
was offline; this message is written on the terminal of the user
who tried to access the tape.
.PP
\fBts%d: hard error bn%d xs0=%b xs1=%b xs2=%b xs3=%b\fR.
A hard error occurred on the tape
at block \fIbn\fR; status registers 0-3 are printed in octal and symbolically
decoded as bits.
.PP
\fBts%d: addr mod 4 != 0\fR.
The address of a TS-11 command packet was not on an even longword boundary.
.SH BUGS
If any non-data error is encountered on non-raw tape, it refuses to do anything
more until closed.
.PP
The device lives at the same address as a tm-11
.IR tm (4).
