.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getmntinfo.3	8.1.1 (2.11BSD) 1995/12/26
.\"
.TH GETMNTINFO 3 "December 26, 1995"
.UC 7
.SH NAME
\fBgetmntinfo\fP \- get information about mounted file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/param.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/mount.h>
.sp
.I int
.br
\fBgetmntinfo\fP(mntbufp,flags)
.br
.I struct statfs **mntbufp;
.br
.I int flags
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR getmntinfo ()
function
returns an array of
.I statfs
structures describing each currently mounted file system (see
.BR statfs (2).
.PP
The
.BR getmntinfo ()
function
passes its
.I flags
parameter transparently to
.BR getfsstat (2).
.SH RETURN VALUES
On successful completion,
.BR getmntinfo ()
returns a count of the number of elements in the array.
The pointer to the array is stored into
.IR mntbufp .
.PP
If an error occurs, zero is returned and the external variable
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
Although the pointer 
.I mntbufp
will be unmodified, any information previously returned by 
.BR getmntinfo ()
will be lost.
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR getmntinfo ()
function
may fail and set errno for any of the errors specified for the library 
routines
.BR getfsstat (2)
or 
.BR malloc (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
getfsstat(2),
statfs(2),
mount(2),
mount(8)
.SH HISTORY
The
.BR getmntinfo ()
function first appeared in 4.4BSD.
.SH BUGS
The
.BR getmntinfo ()
function writes the array of structures to an internal static object
and returns
a pointer to that object. Subsequent calls to
.BR getmntinfo ()
will modify the same object.
.PP
The memory allocated by
.BR getmntinfo ()
cannot be
.BR free (2)'d
by the application.
