.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)sigsetops.3	8.1.1 (2.11BSD) 1997/9/3
.\"
.TH SIGSETOPS 3 "September 3, 1997"
.UC 7
.SH NAME
.BR sigemptyset ,
.BR sigfillset ,
.BR sigaddset ,
.BR sigdelset ,
.BR sigismember
\- manipulate signal sets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
\fBsigemptyset\fP(set)
.br
.I sigset_t *set;
.sp
\fBsigfillset\fP(set)
.br
.I sigset_t *set;
.sp
\fBsigaddset\fP(set, signo)
.br
.I sigset_t *set;
.br
.I int signo;
.sp
\fBsigdelset\fP(set, signo)
.br
.I sigset_t *set;
.br
.I int signo;
.sp
\fBsigismember\fP(set, signo)
.br
.I sigset_t *set;
.br
.I int signo;
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions manipulate signal sets stored in a
.I sigset_t .
Either
.B sigemptyset
or
.B sigfillset
must be called for every object of type
.I sigset_t
before any other use of the object.
.PP
The
.B sigemptyset
function initializes a signal set to be empty.
.PP
The
.B sigfillset
function initializes a signal set to contain all signals.
.PP
The
.B sigaddset
function adds the specified signal
.I signo
to the signal set.
.PP
The
.B sigdelset
function deletes the specified signal
.I signo
from the signal set.
.PP
The
.B sigismember
function returns whether a specified signal
.I signo
is contained in the signal set.
.PP
These functions
are provided as macros in the include file
.RI < signal.h >.
Actual functions are available
if their names are undefined (with #undef
\fBname\fP).
.SH RETURN VALUES
The
.B sigismember
function returns 1
if the signal is a member of the set,
0 otherwise.
The other functions return 0.
.SH ERRORS
Currently no errors are detected.
.SH SEE ALSO
kill(2), sigaction(2), sigsuspend(2)
.SH STANDARDS
These functions are defined by
IEEE Std1003.1-1988 (``POSIX'').
