.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)chflags.2	8.1.1 (2.11BSD GTE) 11/28/94
.\"
.TH CHFLAGS 2 "November 28, 1994"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
chflags, fchflags \- set file flags
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/stat.h>

int
chflags(path, flags)
char *path;
u_short flags;

int
fchflags(fd, flags)
int fd;
u_short flags;
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file whose name
is given by
.B path
or referenced by the descriptor
.B fd
has its flags changed to
.B flags .
.PP
The flags specified are formed by
or'ing
the following values
.PP
.TP 15
UF_NODUMP
Do not dump the file.
.TP 15
UF_IMMUTABLE
The file may not be changed.
.TP 15
UF_APPEND
The file may only be appended to.
.TP 15
ARCHIVED
File is archived.
.TP 15
SF_IMMUTABLE
The file may not be changed.
.TP 15
SF_APPEND
The file may only be appended to.
.PP
The
.B UF_IMMUTABLE
and
.B UF_APPEND
flags may be set or unset by either the owner of a file or the super-user.
.PP
The
.B SF_IMMUTABLE
and
.B SF_APPEND
flags may only be set or unset by the super-user.
They may be set at any time, but normally may only be unset when
the system is in single-user mode.
(See
.I init(8)
for details.)
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, -1 is returned and the global variable
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
Chflags
will fail if:
.TP 15
ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
EINVAL
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
ENAMETOOLONG
A component of a pathname exceeded 63 characters,
or an entire path name exceeded 255 characters.
.TP 15
ENOENT
The named file does not exist.
.TP 15
EACCES
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
.TP 15
ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
EPERM
The effective user ID does not match the owner of the file and
the effective user ID is not the super-user.
.TP 15
EROFS
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
EFAULT
.B path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.PP
fchflags
will fail if:
.TP 15
EBADF
The descriptor is not valid.
.TP 15
EINVAL
.B fd
refers to a socket, not to a file.
.TP 15
EPERM
The effective user ID does not match the owner of the file and
the effective user ID is not the super-user.
.TP 15
EROFS
The file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.SH SEE ALSO
chflags(1), init(8)
.SH HISTORY
The
.B chflags
and
.B fchflags
functions first appeared in 4.4BSD.
