.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)sigaction.2	8.2.1 (2.11BSD) 1997/9/3
.\"
.TH SIGACTION 2 "September 3, 1997"
.UC 7
.SH NAME
\fBsigaction\fP \- software signal facilities
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.nf
struct sigaction {
	int     (*sa_handler)();
	sigset_t sa_mask;
	int	 sa_flags;
};
.fi
.sp
\fBsigaction\fP(sig, act, oact)
.br
.I int sig;
.br
.I struct sigaction *act;
.br
.I struct sigaction *oact;
.SH DESCRIPTION
The system defines a set of signals that may be delivered to a process.
Signal delivery resembles the occurrence of a hardware interrupt:
the signal is blocked from further occurrence, the current process 
context is saved, and a new one is built.  A process may specify a
.I handler
to which a signal is delivered, or specify that a signal is to be 
.IR ignored .
A process may also specify that a default action is to be taken
by the system when a signal occurs.
A signal may also be
.IR blocked ,
in which case its delivery is postponed until it is
.IR unblocked .
The action to be taken on delivery is determined at the time
of delivery.
Normally, signal handlers execute on the current stack
of the process.  This may be changed, on a per-handler basis,
so that signals are taken on a special
.IR "signal stack" .
.PP
Signal routines execute with the signal that caused their
invocation
.IR blocked ,
but other signals may yet occur.
A global 
.IR "signal mask"
defines the set of signals currently blocked from delivery
to a process.  The signal mask for a process is initialized
from that of its parent (normally empty).  It
may be changed with a
.BR sigprocmask (2)
call, or when a signal is delivered to the process.
.PP
When a signal
condition arises for a process, the signal is added to a set of
signals pending for the process.
If the signal is not currently
.I blocked
by the process then it is delivered to the process.
Signals may be delivered any time a process enters the operating system
(e.g., during a system call, page fault or trap, or clock interrupt).
If multiple signals are ready to be delivered at the same time,
any signals that could be caused by traps are delivered first.
Additional signals may be processed at the same time, with each
appearing to interrupt the handlers for the previous signals
before their first instructions.
The set of pending signals is returned by the
.BR sigpending (2)
function.
When a caught signal
is delivered, the current state of the process is saved,
a new signal mask is calculated (as described below), 
and the signal handler is invoked.  The call to the handler
is arranged so that if the signal handling routine returns
normally the process will resume execution in the context
from before the signal's delivery.
If the process wishes to resume in a different context, then it
must arrange to restore the previous context itself.
.PP
When a signal is delivered to a process a new signal mask is
installed for the duration of the process' signal handler
(or until a
.B sigprocmask
call is made).
This mask is formed by taking the union of the current signal mask set,
the signal to be delivered, and 
the signal mask associated with the handler to be invoked.
.PP
.B Sigaction
assigns an action for a specific signal.
If
.I act
is non-zero, it
specifies an action
(SIG_DFL,
SIG_IGN,
or a handler routine) and mask
to be used when delivering the specified signal.
If 
.I oact
is non-zero, the previous handling information for the signal
is returned to the user.
.PP
Once a signal handler is installed, it remains installed
until another
.B sigaction
call is made, or an 
.BR execve (2)
is performed.
A signal-specific default action may be reset by
setting
.I sa_handler
to
SIG_DFL.
The defaults are process termination, possibly with core dump;
no action; stopping the process; or continuing the process.
See the signal list below for each signal's default action.
If
.I sa_handler
is
SIG_DFL,
the default action for the signal is to discard the signal,
and if a signal is pending,
the pending signal is discarded even if the signal is masked.
If
.I sa_handler
is set to
SIG_IGN
current and pending instances
of the signal are ignored and discarded.
.PP
Options may be specified by setting
.IR sa_flags .
If the
SA_NOCLDSTOP
bit is set when installing a catching function
for the
SIGCHLD
signal,
the
SIGCHLD
signal will be generated only when a child process exits,
not when a child process stops.
Further, if the
SA_ONSTACK
bit is set in
.IR sa_flags ,
the system will deliver the signal to the process on a
.IR "signal stack" ,
specified with
.BR sigstack (2).
.PP
If a signal is caught during the system calls listed below,
the call may be forced to terminate
with the error
EINTR,
the call may return with a data transfer shorter than requested,
or the call may be restarted.
Restart of pending calls is requested
by setting the
SA_RESTART
bit in
.IR sa_flags .
The affected system calls include
.BR open (2),
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR sendto (2),
.BR recvfrom (2),
.BR sendmsg (2)
and
.BR recvmsg (2)
on a communications channel or a slow device (such as a terminal,
but not a regular file)
and during a
.BR wait (2)
or
.BR ioctl (2).
However, calls that have already committed are not restarted,
but instead return a partial success (for example, a short read count).
.PP
After a
.BR fork (2)
or
.BR vfork (2)
all signals, the signal mask, the signal stack,
and the restart/interrupt flags are inherited by the child.
.PP
.BR Execve (2)
reinstates the default
action for all signals which were caught and
resets all signals to be caught on the user stack.
Ignored signals remain ignored;
the signal mask remains the same;
signals that restart pending system calls continue to do so.
.PP
The following is a list of all signals
with names as in the include file
.RI < signal.h >:
.LP
.in +0.5i
.\" BE VERY VERY CAREFUL (and do not cut/paste in an xterm) below.  There are
.\" embedded tabs present.
.ta \w'SIGVTALRMxx'u +\w'terminatexxx'u
NAME	Action	Description
.br
SIGHUP	terminate	terminal line hangup
.br
SIGINT	terminate	interrupt program
.br
SIGQUIT	core	quit program
.br
SIGILL	core	illegal instruction
.br
SIGTRAP	core	trace trap
.br
SIGIOT	core	abort(2) call (same as SIGABRT)
.br
SIGEMT	core	emulate instruction executed
.br
SIGFPE	core	floating-point exception
.br
SIGKILL	terminate	kill program
.br
SIGBUS	core	bus error
.br
SIGSEGV	core	segmentation violation
.br
SIGSYS	core	system call given invalid argument
.br
SIGPIPE	terminate	write on a pipe with no reader
.br
SIGALRM	terminate	real-time timer expired
.br
SIGTERM	terminate	software termination signal
.br
SIGURG	discard	urgent condition present on socket
.br
SIGSTOP	stop	stop (cannot be caught or ignored)
.br
SIGTSTP	stop	stop generated from keyboard
.br
SIGCONT	discard	continue after stop
.br
SIGCHLD	discard	child status has changed
.br
SIGTTIN	stop	background read attempted on control terminal
.br
SIGTTOU	stop	background write attemped to control terminal
.br
SIGIO	discard	I/O is possible on a descriptor (see fcntl(2))
.br
SIGXCPU	terminate	cpu time limit exceeded (see setrlimit(2))
.br
SIGXFSZ	terminate	file size limit exceeded (see setrlimit(2))
.br
SIGVTALRM	terminate	virtual time alarm (see setitimer(2))
.br
SIGPROF	terminate	profiling timer alarm (see setitimer(2))
.br
SIGWINCH	discard	Window size change
.br
SIGINFO	discard	status request from keyboard
.br
SIGUSR1	terminate	User defined signal 1
.br
SIGUSR2	terminate	User defined signal 2
.br
.in -0.5i
.SH NOTE
The mask specified in 
.I act
is not allowed to block
SIGKILL
or
SIGSTOP.
This is done silently by the system.
.SH RETURN VALUES
A 0 value indicated that the call succeeded.  A \-1 return value
indicates an error occurred and
.I errno
is set to indicated the reason.
.SH EXAMPLE
The handler routine can be declared:
.sp
.nf
int handler(sig, code, scp)
int sig, code;
struct sigcontext *scp;
.fi
.PP
Here
.I sig
is the signal number, into which the hardware faults and traps are
mapped.
.I Code
is a parameter that is either a constant
or the code provided by
the hardware.
.I Scp
is a pointer to the
.I sigcontext
structure (defined in
.RI < signal.h >,
used to restore the context from before the signal.
.SH ERRORS
.B Sigaction
will fail and no new signal handler will be installed if one
of the following occurs:
.TP 20
EFAULT
Either
.I act
or 
.I oact
points to memory that is not a valid part of the process
address space.
.TP 20
EINVAL
.I Sig
is not a valid signal number.
.TP 20
EINVAL
An attempt is made to ignore or supply a handler for
SIGKILL
or
SIGSTOP.
.SH STANDARDS
The
.B sigaction
function is defined by
IEEE Std1003.1-1988 (``POSIX'').
The
SA_ONSTACK
and
SA_RESTART
flags are Berkeley extensions,
as are the signals,
SIGTRAP,
SIGEMT,
SIGBUS,
SIGSYS,
SIGURG,
SIGIO,
SIGXCPU,
SIGXFSZ,
SIGVTALRM,
SIGPROF,
SIGWINCH,
and
SIGINFO.
Those signals are available on most
BSD\-derived
systems.
.SH BUGS
The networking related syscalls are not properly restarted in 2.11BSD.  The
SIGINFO signal is not implemented in 2.11BSD.
.SH SEE ALSO
kill(1),
fcntl(2),
ptrace(2),
kill(2),
setitimer(2),
setrlimit(2),
sigaction(2),
sigprocmask(2),
sigsuspend(2),
sigblock(2),
sigsetmask(2),
sigpause(2),
sigstack(2),
sigvec(2),
setjmp(3),
siginterrupt(3),
sigsetops(3),
tty(4)
