.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)vwidth.1	6.1.1 (2.11BSD) 1996/10/22
.\"
.TH VWIDTH 1 "October 22, 1996"
.UC 5
.SH NAME
vwidth \- make troff width table for a font
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vwidth
fontfile pointsize > ft\fIxx\fP.c
.br
.B cc -c ft\fIxx\fP.c
mv ft\fIxx\fP.o /usr/share/font/ft\fIxx\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Vwidth
translates from the width information stored in the vfont style
format to the format expected by troff.
Troff wants an object file in a.out(5) format.
(This fact does not seem to be documented anywhere.)
Troff should look directly in the font file but it doesn't.
.PP
Vwidth should be used after editing a font with
.I fed(1).
It is not necessary to use vwidth unless you have made a change
that would affect the width tables.
Such changes include numerically editing the width field,
adding a new character,
and moving or copying a character to a new position.
It is
.I not
always necessary to use vwidth if the physical width of the glyph
(e.g. the number of columns in the bit matrix) has changed, but
if it has changed much the logical width should probably be changed
and vwidth run.
.PP
Vwidth produces a C program on its standard output.
This program should be run through the C compiler and
the object (that is, the .o file) saved.
The resulting file should be placed in /usr/share/font
in the file
.RI ft xx
where
.II xx
is a one or two letter code that is the logical (internal to troff)
font name.
This name can be found by looking in the file
.RI /usr/share/fontinfo/ fname *
where
.I fname
is the external name of the font.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fed(1),
vfont(5),
troff(1),
vtroff(1)
.SH BUGS
Produces the C file using obsolete syntax
that the portable C compiler complains about.
